# S3QR

- Survey

  - The authors are interested in deterministically generating images from malware and using GANs to classify them into families of malware.

- Question

  - Do GANs perform better at classifying malware than CNNs?

    - They do not perform better, however, at least the discriminator of the AC-GAN can be trained reasonably fast and classify malware with a relatively high F1 score. The generator part does not perform well and takes a lot of time to be trained.

  - GAN is an odd choice for classification. Why was it chosen?

    - With intention to train a generator that can produce deep-fake malware images capable of deceiving image-based malware detectors.

* * *

# Meta Info

**Research Question:**

- What is the best way to generate images from malware?

- What is the best way to solve a malware image classification problem?

- How might we perform adversarial attacks on image-based malware classifiers?

**Context:** Costly deep learning image-based malware detection techniques have become viable with recent research and AI boom. New malware families are being developed every day, so it is important to be able to quickly adapt and classify them.

* * *

# Notes

Malware detection can be categorized into 2 broad categories:

- Signature-based

  - Identifies malware and keeps it’s signature

  - Is not immune to obfuscation

  - Is not immune to zero-days

  - Might not be scalable

- Anomaly-based

  - Suitable for ML detection techniques

  - Is not immune to adversarial attacks

Pre-trained models are suitable for malware image detection, therefore a lot of expensive training time can be saved.

Considered ML models

- k-Nearest Neighbors (k-NN)

  - Simple and understandable

  - Computations are costly in high-dimensional space (as is the case with images)

- Support Vector Machines (SVM)

  - Uses hyperplanes to separate and classify data (linear?)

  - Becomes costly in high-dimensional space

- Random Forest (RF) \[Ensemble technique\]

- XGBoost \[Ensemble technique\]

Considered Deep Learning models

- Deep convolutional GAN (DC-GAN)

  - Applicable to unlabelled data

  - Unsupervised technique for representational learning

- Auxiliary-classifier GAN (AC-GAN)

  - Does well with multiclass problems

  - Can be used to generate adversarial examples of a specific class

- Restricted Boltzmann machines (RBM)

  - Is able to extract non-linear features from images

- Resnet152 (Deep residual network)

  - Pre-trained

  - Requires only fine-tunning

The authors used the MalExe dataset for the experiments

The authors determine that truncated colormap method provides the best performance among image generation techniques tested. Colormap refers to converting each byte of the program to xy coordinates and selecting the color associated with that coordinate in the color map. Truncation refers to only selecting the first 128x128 bytes from the malware.

Out of the tested models, Resnet152 performed the best. Ensemble model RF significantly increased the F1 metric for the more difficult families, which were *Obfuscator, Agent, Ceeinject, Rbot.*

AC-GAN generated, according to the authors, “excellent representations” of real malware images, however, in their experiments, all tested models were able to distinguish between the fake and real images rather easily, indicating that adversarial attacks targeting image-based malware detectors might not be feasible if considering only the deep-fakes method.

Note: the deep-fake images do not correspond to functioning malware

### Possible Improvement

**Idea:** Including more obfuscated malware examples in the training data could help achieve better results

Would need to check the MalExe dataset for class balance
