# S3QR

- Survey

  - The authors seem to be motivated by the rival game between malware authors and malware detectors. They aim to create to create a framework for generating adversarial malware examples that are capable of evading black-box detectors.

- Question

  - Why does MalFox work under a black-box setting?

    - It’s training design ensures that the discriminator is of similar capabilities as the detector by actually testing the malwares which manage to win against the discriminator via the detector.

  - Why Conv-GANs are used?

    - The transposed CNN can utilize its property of composing a specific set of malware features to uniquely represent each malware. This allows for a unique perturbation strategy to be generated for each malware to best help it avoid detection.

* * *

# Meta Info

**Research Question:** How might we create a framework for launching adversarial attacks targeting practical malware detectors from third parties under a black-box setting?

**Context:** Hu et. al influential MalGAN paper, no research present on targeting practical malware detectors

* * *

# Notes

Other evasions techniques include:

- Non-AI

  - Delayed execution

    - Relies on malware detectors avoiding costly computations

  - Fingerprinting

    - detects if the program is being run in a malware analysis runtime

  - Obfuscation

    - Deliberate degradation of quality of information

  - Multi-stage evasion

    - Evading detection by splitting the malware into multiple processes that are coordinated by a master process

- AI

  - Biology-inspired approaches (genetic algorithms, swarm intelligence, etc.)

  - DNN-based

    - DQEAF (reinforcement learning)

    - MalGAN (GAN)

The authors suggest that all previously mentioned models/frameworks rely on powerful self-developed ML-based detectors, which may not accurately represent detectors used in real-world scenarios.

MalFox design:

- PE Parser

  - Generates feature vectors (names of DLLs used)

- Generator

  - Combines noise with feature vectors and generates perturbation paths according to 3 framework strategies

- PE Editor

  - Changes the execution of the malware according to the selected framework strategies

- Discriminator

  - Provided the feature vectors and perturbation paths attempts to classify the input to either malware or benignware. Adjusts itself to be as capable as the detector.

- Detector

  - The black-box model. VirusTotal in this case

MalFox evasion strategies:

1. Obfusmal - malware’s code section is encrypted and a Sell.dll which is capable of decrypting and executing the original code section is attached to the end of the program

2. Stealmal - The entire original malware is encrypted and attached to the end of Shell.exe, which is able to decrypt and execute the original program

3. Hollowmal - the entire malware is encrypted and attached to the end of a benignware program. Hollow.dll which is capable of decrypting and executing the malware is attached to the previous joint block.

4. Null - the original malware is left as is

5. Combination - the previous strategies are combined sequentially by substituting malware with the previous combination.
