## S3QR

- Survey: MalInfo authors suggest they have improved the adversarial  attack generation model MalFox by using dynamic programming and (or) temporal difference learning to adaptively select the perturbation path.

- Question

  - How does this improve MalFox?

    - Malfox is trained on a sample space, while MalInfo can take single examples and train on them until it reaches the optimal strategy.

  - Is the underlying architecture similar to MalFox?

    - Yes. They share the PE Editor and detector parts. Only the generation and training parts are different (MalFox uses GAN, MalInfo uses RL)

  - How does reinforcement learning come into play?

    - Not only does it choose a perturbation path, it selects on optimal strategy based on the available data (which is determined by selecting either DP or TD method)

  - Reproducable?

    - Dataset is VirusShare, Detector is VirusTotal, framework strategies are described in and available from the MalFox paper

  - Examples available?

    - The authors do not mention anything about that,

- Read

- Recite

- Review

* * *

## Meta info

**Research Question:** How to create powerful optimal adversarial examples that are able to evade malware detectors under a black-box setting?

**Context:**

- Work seems to be largely based on improving MalFox (first released 2021)

- Reinforcement Learning

  - Model-based. Employing transition probability functions related with Markov decision process when a perfect environment dynamics model is available (DP)

  - Model-free. Explicitly trial-and-error approaches that explore uncharted territory with no prior knowledge of their environment (TD)

- Adversarial Examples

  - The aim is to confuse machine-learning based detectors and classifiers

  - Perturbation is one of the most effective ways to alter something in a meaningful-to-machine way while remaining quasi-imperceptible to humans (when applicable)

  - Other widely-used techniques

    - appending random data

    - appending goodware strings

    - changing binary headers

    - embedding samples in a dropper

* * *

# Notes

MalInfo components:

- Agent

- PE Editor

- Detector

Compared to Malfox:

- PE Parser

- Generator

- Discriminator

- PE Editor

- Detector

MalInfo’s **main idea** is to find the optimal strategy (action sequences) to transform malware into it’s adversarial example such that it’s *evasiveness* is maximized

MalInfo is an “interface” that describes the components on a theoretical level, however, they need to be implemented. In the paper, the authors select VirusTotal as the detector implementation. They specify their own implementations of the other 2 components.

Agent. Employs reinforcement learning, which mainly consists of 2 techniques: DP (dynamic programming) and temporal difference learning.

- Dynamic programming relies on an idealized model (environment dynamics) being present for Markov decision process and it should be used with care since it becomes very computationally expensive as the action set grows.

- Temporal Difference (TD) learning does not require a model as it uses Monte Carlo methods to sample the current environment (replacing the outputs of a perfect model) and DP to update the estimates. TD may not choose the correct sequence, but statistically (based on available data) the most probable to increase evasiveness ones. This causes it’s variance in experiments to be higher.

Only a small number of actions (perturbation layers) usually make it to the sequence, since having a lot of perturbations increases load time, which may alert malware detectors. It makes sense that the load time increases, considering that each of the 3 framework strategies (Obfusmal, Stealmal, Hollowmal) employs encryption of the original malware.
