# S3QR

Survey

- The authors seem confident that the idea of n-gram from NLP can increase efficiency of adversarial malware example generation. Moreover, it uses easy-to-extract features which also reduces complexity.

Question

- If feature vectors differ and there are no perturbations, how similar is the suggested framework to MalGAN?

  - n-gram MalGAN figures out the features of benign programs and they can then be appended at a non-functional location (i.e. at the end) of the malware program by the generator.

- Is it as effective as MalGAN?

  - Yes

- Can ideas from this approach be used in improved MalGAN works (i.e. MalFox)?

  - Experiments that would use n-grams as features should be possible with any modifications of MalGAN. However, they would not benefit from the noise reduction in this paper

- Has it been tested on Black-Box detectors?

  - It’s training process involves a black-box detector, however, the authors do not elaborate on any post-training testing done.

* * *

# Meta Info

**Research Question:**  How might we reduce deployment complexity and increase performance of adversarial malware attacks? How might we remove assumptions about black-box detectors in adversarial attacks?

**Context:**

- Extracting features as described in previous works requires professional tools

- Previous works assume some knowledge of the black-box detector inner workings (such as the relevant features)

- Convergence of training in previous works may be unstable and is usually slow

- The authors acknowledge that quite a lot of research has been done on “cheating” ML-based detectors, but they identify that even the black-box attack models assume some knowledge of the detector

* * *

# Notes

Some additions to previously read malware detection techniques:

- Behavior monitoring method

- Heuristic method

- Behavioral results detection

- Intrusion detection

The authors suggest, that the noise used in MalGAN adversarial generation adds too much instability, therefore they remove noise completely.

The *n-gram MalGAN* does not modify the existing features, rather it occasionally adds other features (using the OR operator). Additionally, the first 300 (out of 350) dimensions remain unchanged (the dimensions represent the most common *grams* (words), 1 being the most used)

Metric used is TPR (lower is better)

The experiments are run using different dataset partitioning methods (same dataset for n-gram and black-box vs. non-overlapping datasets)

The authors experiment with how many features the generator changes to be representative of benign programs. 50 features (300 malware / 50 benign) achieves good results, even reaching 0 TPR in some cases, while 20 and 10 perform much worse

The authors verified that their framework which focuses heavily on feature selection is important by replacing the 50 benign features with random noise. This yielded almost no change in TPR as compared to original malware.

The detection results (TPR) are similar to MalGAN’s. Given that n-gram MalGAN has wider usage scope, does not require any professional tools for feature extraction and is faster - it seems superior to MalGAN.
